We're now going to cover Amazon API Gateway and before we go over this diagram I'm just going to take
you to the AWS Web site.
Sometimes it's easier to explain what a service is just by looking at the AWS article.
So in this article it tells you the API Gateway is a service for creating publishing maintaining monitoring
and securing rest and web socket API as at any scale.
So you're you know what REST is I know we've talked about it earlier on in this course.
If you don't you can always go over to another browse a window SEARCH FOR REST API and there's a good
Wikipedia article that's probably good articles throughout Google but I've used this one few times and
it's got a good amount of information on what REST is and the various hate HTTP methods you might use
with it.
So another thing to point out here is that web socket APIs is a feature of API Gateway.
It's relatively new.
I think it was late 2018 so probably starting to appear on the exam now. They used to just offer rest
api.
But now API Gateway also offers websocket API as well as REST api. Our HTTP based adhere to the rest protocol
and use standard methods it's worth dicing that with API Gateway.
You can only use HTTPS.
So you see HTTP is still the hypertext transfer protocol but it's the secure version of HTTP which is
used with API gateway.
There's no choice there.
There's a diagram here which shows you some of the use cases for using API gateway.
So it could be connected users with streaming dashboards, web and mobile applications, IOT, private applications
within a VPC or on premises.
So these could be anywhere basically.
And then behind API Gateway you might have cloudwatch for your alarms and you can have an API Gateway
cache so that you can cache your API for a better response times and then you can have your applications
pretty much anywhere in a VPC or on premises and then you can have your AWS resources and it really
can be pretty much any backend server.
So you've got your API Gateway and then you've got your back-end services. A few more features worth
noting so we talked about websockets as well as the REST apis, you've got authentication for
IAM lambda authorizer functions, incognito user pools, you can log API usage for cloudtrail, you can use
cloudwatch for setting various alarms, and you can use cloudformation templates for API creation. Also
you can use a custom domain name so you can also integrate with the AWS web application firewall so
that's for protecting your API as against web exploits so this is a security service and then you've
got integration with AWS x-ray for triaging performance. Licenses you can access through the console
the SDK, there's some APIs here that you can use if your language isn't supported by the SDK then
there's the CLI and the tools for Windows powershell. Another thing that's worth noting is that lambda
and API Gateway form the app facing parts of the AWS service infrastructure so this sometimes comes
up in exam questions where they might ask you to identify or they might ask you what would go along
with one of these services as part of the app facing part of the AWS service infrastructure so that's
it.
These are basically your front-end services for your application.
Let's just head back to the diagram now and we've covered a bit of this on on the web page that we just
looked at.
But again you've got your front-end so you've got your clients could be a mobile client a service could
be a Web site, could be IOT, could be pretty much anything on the Internet that's going to talk REST
API using HTTPS to API Gateway. Then behind API Gateway you can have any AWS service basically but
a few examples would be lambda and that's these to form the app facing part of the service infrastructure
as we just mentioned it could be an AWS lambda public end-point or it could be a lambda function as
within a VPC so it could be private and the same applies for application load balancers and EC2 instances.
So these can be in public subnets or they can be in private subnet so they can have a public IP attached
or they can be entirely private.
And API Gateway can connect to any public endpoint as well.
The next thing this cover is API Gateway endpoints.
So there are three different types of endpoints. Originally API gateway came out with the edge optimized endpoint
only.
And in this case cloudfront is put in front of API gateway.
And if you remember cloudfront is a content delivery network with points of presence all over the world
so it's got hundreds of points of presence around the world and it will cache your information second
cache anything form images right for you to stuff like API.
And therefore if your user base is global then you can reduce your latency for requests that come from
anywhere around the world.
So that was a very good solution if you are a global company or you have a global user base.
The next type of endpoint that was introduced was the regional endpoint.
And in this case it's optimized for when your user base or your services that are using API Gateway
are within a region.
Now there could still be outside of the actual AWS region but they might be within a geographical region.
So you don't have to utilize those points of presence around the world that cloudfront has.
Instead you're keeping it within a region and optionally you can then place your own CDN in front of
API gateway for caching and you can also protect with the Web Application Firewall.
The third type of endpoint that was introduced was the private endpoint and this was late 2018.
So again it's something that's relatively new but should be appearing on the exam.
Now in this case your services are within the same VPC.
So this really is private.
This is within AWS.
You could have resources connected over direct connect so that could be your own on premise network.
But essentially what you're saying is you're keeping it's into your secure private IP space so that's
it for this quick overview of API Gateway and what we're gonna do now is go into some labs where we're
going to start building out some solutions.